Add AWS Serverless Forwarder to Obs Guide (#2214)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/aws-deploy-elastic-serverless-forwarder.asciidoc

    outputs:
      - type: "elasticsearch"
        args:
          # either elasticsearch_url or cloud_id, elasticsearch_url takes precedence
          elasticsearch_url: "http(s)://domain.tld:port"
          cloud_id: "cloud_id:bG9jYWxob3N0OjkyMDAkMA=="
          # either api_key or username/password, api_key takes precedence
          api_key: "YXBpX2tleV9pZDphcGlfa2V5X3NlY3JldAo="
          username: "username"
          password: "password"
          es_datastream_name: "logs-generic-default"
          batch_max_actions: 500
          batch_max_bytes: 10485760
----

[[s3-config-file-fields]]
=== Fields

//convert to description list?

`inputs.[]`:

A list of inputs (i.e. triggers) for the Elastic Serverless Forwarder Lambda function.

`inputs.[].type`:

The type of trigger input (`cloudwatch-logs`, `kinesis-data-stream`, `sqs` and `s3-sqs` are currently supported).

`inputs.[].id`:

The ARN of the trigger input according to the type. Multiple input entries can have different unique ids with the same type.
Inputs of type `cloudwatch-logs` accept both CloudWatch Logs Log Group and CloudWatch Logs Log Stream ARNs.

`inputs.[].outputs`:

> A list of outputs (i.e. forwarding targets) for the Elastic Serverless Forwarder Lambda function. Only one output can be defined per type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list of outputs (i.e. forwarding targets) for the Elastic Serverless Forwarder Lambda function. You can have multiple outputs for an input, but only one output can be defined per type.
```

`inputs.[].outputs.[].type`:

The type of the forwarding target output (currently only `elasticsearch` supported).

`inputs.[].outputs.[].args`:
Custom init arguments for the specified forwarding target output.

For `elasticsearch` the following arguments are supported:

  * `args.elasticsearch_url`: URL of elasticsearch endpoint in the format `http(s)://domain.tld:port`. Mandatory when `args.cloud_id` is not provided. Will take precedence over `args.cloud_id` if both are defined.
  * `args.cloud_id`: Cloud ID of elasticsearch endpoint. Mandatory when `args.elasticsearch_url` is not provided. Will be ignored if `args.elasticsearch_url` is defined as well.

>   * `args.username`: Username of the elasticsearch instance to connect to. Mandatory when `args.api_key` is not provided. Will be ignored if `args.api_key` is defined as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `args.username`: Username of the elasticsearch instance to connect to. Mandatory when `args.api_key` is not provided. Will take precedence over `args.api_key` if both are defined.
```

>   * `args.password` Password of the elasticsearch instance to connect to. Mandatory when `args.api_key` is not provided. Will be ignored if `args.api_key` is defined as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `args.password` Password of the elasticsearch instance to connect to. Mandatory when `args.api_key` is not provided. Will take precedence over `args.api_key` if both are defined.
```

>   * `args.api_key`:  API key of elasticsearch endpoint in the format **base64encode(api_key_id:api_key_secret)**. Mandatory when `args.username`  and `args.password` are not provided. Will take precedence over `args.username`/`args.password` if both are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `args.api_key`:  API key of elasticsearch endpoint in the format **base64encode(api_key_id:api_key_secret)**. Mandatory when `args.username`  and `args.password` are not provided. Will be ignored if `args.username`/`args.password` are defined as well.
```

  * `args.es_datastream_name`: Name of data stream or index where logs should be forwarded to. Lambda supports automatic routing of various {aws} service logs to the corresponding data streams for further processing and storage in the {es} cluster. It supports automatic routing of `aws.cloudtrail`, `aws.cloudwatch_logs`, `aws.elb_logs`, `aws.firewall_logs`, `aws.vpcflow`, and `aws.waf` logs. For other log types, if using data streams, you can optionally set its value in the configuration file according to the naming convention for data streams and available integrations. If the `es_datastream_name` is not specified and it cannot be matched with any of the above {aws} services, then the value will be set to `logs-generic-default`. In version **v0.29.1** and earlier, this configuration parameter was named `es_index_or_datastream_name`. Rename the configuration parameter to `es_datastream_name` in your `config.yaml` file on the S3 bucket to continue using it in the future version. The older name `es_index_or_datastream_name` is deprecated as of version **v0.30.0**. The related backward compatibility code is removed from version **v1.0.0**.

>   * `args.batch_max_actions`: Maximum number of actions to send in a single bulk request. Default value: 500.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `args.batch_max_actions`: (Optional) Maximum number of actions to send in a single bulk request. Default value: 500.
```

>   * `args.batch_max_bytes`: Maximum size in bytes to send in a single bulk request. Default value: 10485760 (10MB).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `args.batch_max_bytes`: (Optional) Maximum size in bytes to send in a single bulk request. Default value: 10485760 (10MB).
```

>   * `args.ssl_assert_fingerprint`: SSL fingerprint for self-signed SSL certificate on HTTPS transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `args.ssl_assert_fingerprint`: (Optional) SSL fingerprint for self-signed SSL certificate on HTTPS transport.
```

> // is there some logic to this order? i.e. just placed ssl at end - should we re-order?

Reviewer: no logic but for readability one

[[aws-serverless-forwarder-deploy-sar]]
== Deploy `elastic-serverless-forwarder` from Serverless Application Repository

There are several deployment methods available via the {aws} Serverless Application Repository:

* <<aws-serverless-forwarder-deploy-console>>
* <<aws-serverless-forwarder-deploy-cloudformation>>
* <<aws-serverless-forwarder-deploy-terraform>>

[[aws-serverless-forwarder-deploy-console]]
=== Deploy using {aws} Console

. Log in to {aws} console and navigate to the Lambda service.

> . Click **Create function**.

Reviewer: this changed a little in the current AWS console :(

Author: I ran thru it again and updated the text and screenshot

. Select **Browse serverless app repository**.
. Select **Public applications**.
. Search for **elastic-serverless-forwarder** and select it from results.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/aws-serverless-forwarder-create-function.png[Create Elastic Serverless Forwarder Lambda function within SAR]
+

> . Complete the **Application settings** as follows:

Reviewer: let's find a way to clarify that most of the ARNs to provide are all the ones referenced in the config file.
Only `ElasticServerlessForwarderS3Buckets` are the ARNs of the s3 bucket of the set up sqs s3 notification that are not referenced in the config file, and `ElasticServerlessForwarderKMSKeys` are the ARNs of the KMS keys used to encrypt the SSM secrets that are not referenced in the config file.

Author: I've updated the initial sentence to
`Complete the **Application settings** as follows, making sure you reference the ARNs specified in your `config.yaml`, and leaving any settings for unused inputs blank:` 
and simplified the text within the individual settings.

    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderS3ConfigFile`: Set the value of the S3 URL in the format `s3://bucket-name/config-file-name` to the configuration file for your deployment of Elastic Serverless Forwarder. This will populate the `S3_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable of the deployed Lambda.
    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderSSMSecrets`: Add a comma delimited list of {aws} SSM Secrets ARNs referenced in the `config.yaml` file (if any).
    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderKMSKeys`: Add a comma delimited list of {aws} KMS Keys ARNs to be used for decrypting {aws} SSM Secrets referenced in the `config.yaml` file (if any).

>     * `ElasticServerlessForwarderSQSEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of Direct SQS queues ARNs to set as event triggers for the Lambda (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderSQSEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of Direct SQS queues ARNs to set as event triggers for the Lambda referenced in the `config.yaml` file (if any).
```

>     * `ElasticServerlessForwarderS3SQSEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of S3 SQS Event Notifications ARNs to set as event triggers for the Lambda (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderS3SQSEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of S3 SQS Event Notifications ARNs to set as event triggers for the Lambda referenced in the `config.yaml` file (if any).
```

>     * `ElasticServerlessForwarderKinesisEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of Kinesis Data Stream ARNs to set as event triggers for the Lambda (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderKinesisEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of Kinesis Data Stream ARNs to set as event triggers for the Lambda referenced in the `config.yaml` file (if any).
```

>     * `ElasticServerlessForwarderCloudWatchLogsEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of Cloudwatch Logs log group ARNs to set subscription filters on the Lambda (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `ElasticServerlessForwarderCloudWatchLogsEvents`: Add a comma delimited list of Cloudwatch Logs log group ARNs to set subscription filters on the Lambda referenced in the `config.yaml` file (if any).
```

----
+

. Save the following YAML content as `sar-application.yaml` and fill in the correct parameters:
+
[source, yaml]
----
    Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
    Resources:
      SarCloudformationDeployment:
        Type: AWS::Serverless::Application
        Properties:
          Location:
            ApplicationId: 'arn:aws:serverlessrepo:eu-central-1:267093732750:applications/elastic-serverless-forwarder'
            SemanticVersion: '%SEMANTICVERSION%'  ## CHANGE REFERENCING THE SEMANTIC VERSION (IT MUST BE GREATER THAN 0.30.0)
          Parameters:
            ElasticServerlessForwarderS3ConfigFile: ""          ## FILL WITH THE VALUE OF THE S3 URL IN THE FORMAT "s3://bucket-name/config-file-name" POINTING TO THE CONFIGURATION FILE FOR YOUR DEPLOYMENT OF THE ELASTIC SERVERLESS FORWARDER
            ElasticServerlessForwarderSSMSecrets: ""            ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF AWS SSM SECRETS ARNS REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
            ElasticServerlessForwarderKMSKeys: ""               ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF AWS KMS KEYS ARNS TO BE USED FOR DECRYPTING AWS SSM SECRETS REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).

>             ElasticServerlessForwarderSQSEvents: ""             ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF DIRECT SQS QUEUES ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ElasticServerlessForwarderSQSEvents: ""             ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF DIRECT SQS QUEUES ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

>             ElasticServerlessForwarderS3SQSEvents: ""           ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF S3 SQS EVENT NOTIFICATIONS ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ElasticServerlessForwarderS3SQSEvents: ""           ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF S3 SQS EVENT NOTIFICATIONS ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

>             ElasticServerlessForwarderKinesisEvents: ""         ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF KINESIS DATA STREAM ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ElasticServerlessForwarderKinesisEvents: ""         ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF KINESIS DATA STREAM ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

>             ElasticServerlessForwarderCloudWatchLogsEvents: ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF CLOUDWATCH LOGS LOG GROUPS ARNS TO SET SUBSCRIPTION FILTERS ON THE LAMBDA FOR (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ElasticServerlessForwarderCloudWatchLogsEvents: ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF CLOUDWATCH LOGS LOG GROUPS ARNS TO SET SUBSCRIPTION FILTERS ON THE LAMBDA FOR REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

    application_id = "arn:aws:serverlessrepo:eu-central-1:267093732750:applications/elastic-serverless-forwarder"
  }
  resource "aws_serverlessapplicationrepository_cloudformation_stack" "esf_cf_stak" {
    name             = "terraform-elastic-serverless-forwarder"
    application_id   = data.aws_serverlessapplicationrepository_application.esf_sar.application_id
    semantic_version = data.aws_serverlessapplicationrepository_application.esf_sar.semantic_version
    capabilities     = data.aws_serverlessapplicationrepository_application.esf_sar.required_capabilities
  parameters = {
      ElasticServerlessForwarderS3ConfigFile         = ""  ## FILL WITH THE VALUE OF THE S3 URL IN THE FORMAT "s3://bucket-name/config-file-name" POINTING TO THE CONFIGURATION FILE FOR YOUR DEPLOYMENT OF THE ELASTIC SERVERLESS FORWARDER
      ElasticServerlessForwarderSSMSecrets           = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF AWS SSM SECRETS ARNS REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
      ElasticServerlessForwarderKMSKeys              = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF AWS KMS KEYS ARNS TO BE USED FOR DECRYPTING AWS SSM SECRETS REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).

>       ElasticServerlessForwarderSQSEvents            = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF DIRECT SQS QUEUES ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ElasticServerlessForwarderSQSEvents            = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF DIRECT SQS QUEUES ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

>       ElasticServerlessForwarderS3SQSEvents          = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF S3 SQS EVENT NOTIFICATIONS ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ElasticServerlessForwarderS3SQSEvents          = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF S3 SQS EVENT NOTIFICATIONS ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

>       ElasticServerlessForwarderKinesisEvents        = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF KINESIS DATA STREAM ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ElasticServerlessForwarderKinesisEvents        = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF KINESIS DATA STREAM ARNS TO SET AS EVENT TRIGGERS FOR THE LAMBDA REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```

>       ElasticServerlessForwarderCloudWatchLogsEvents = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF CLOUDWATCH LOGS LOG GROUPS ARNS TO SET SUBSCRIPTION FILTERS ON THE LAMBDA FOR (IF ANY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ElasticServerlessForwarderCloudWatchLogsEvents = ""  ## FILL WITH A COMMA DELIMITED LIST OF CLOUDWATCH LOGS LOG GROUPS ARNS TO SET SUBSCRIPTION FILTERS ON THE LAMBDA FOR REFERENCED IN THE CONFIG YAML FILE (IF ANY).
```
